To offer some context on me, my love for technology began when I wrote my first lines of code on a TI-99/4A, at age 6. From the moment that I saw the resulting program print my name across the screen, I knew what I wanted to be when I grew up. Nineteen years of professional experience later, I still hold onto that child-like sense of wonder and try to bring that sense of passion and enthusiasm to my work each day. 

Currently, I serve as a Principal Engineering Lead for Mimeo, managing a geographically distributed development team that owns the mission-critical systems responsible for order processing and the internal tools that monitor and manage them.  Together, these systems and tools control more than 80% of the company's revenue stream.  In addition to managing the team, my role entails recognizing and championing improvements to the company’s technical stack, processes, and product offerings, coordination with other teams to identify shared technology and produce common services/libraries, and serving as the technical representation for executive product pitches/reviews. 

From September 2013 until April 2016, I served as a Senior Technical Program Manager for 343 Industries on the Halo services team, helping to conceptualize and deliver high performance and highly scalable service offerings in support of the ecosystem of Halo games and properties. Most recently, I was responsible for mission critical infrastructure as a member of leadership for team that owns lobbies, matchmaking, and dedicated servers for Halo 5: Guardians, without which the games online modes cannot function.  The role was both challenging and diverse, allowing me to serve as the owner of multiple products, representative of the best interest and perspective of our players, the owner of technical design requirements, and  the development process. On a given day, I may have spent time working with design to gather requirements for features, working with management for capacity planning, grooming backlogs and assembling sprint plans, participating in code reviews, or writing some code to resolve bugs in our code base.

In my past, I have held development-centric leadership roles in companies such as Bristol-Myers Squibb, Harte-Hanks, and TABcom and on large-scale projects for companies such as Ralph Lauren, SanDisk, and Guitar Center.  In these roles, I have been responsible for duties such as creation and governance of technical and architectural direction, ownership of hiring for development teams, establishment of standards, mentorship, and the design, development, and delivery of high quality software.

Should you wish to gain some insight into my work, please feel free to view some of samples in my portfolio (https://github.com/jsquire/Portfolio). As with most repositories, I consider it a work in progress, with ongoing enhancements and additional materials being added, but the contents serve as a fair representation of how I think and work, both past and current.
